---
layout: post
title: "Milo the Bearded Dragon"
img: blog/milo_face.jpg
isBlogPost: true
---
It's winter in Seattle and I was lucky I made it out of the house and down the street to finish my workday at a coffee shop pottery studio near my sister's apartment. The coffee was pretty good, the food was decent. The entire vibe is quiet, peaceful, and kitschy. The perfect mix of stylish while also not trying too hard. Very PNW. I was on my way out but a tank with a few bearded dragons near the bathroom caught my attention. I watched them for a few minutes before a woman appeared and told me I could take them out if I wanted. I politely declined but as if she didn't hear me, she opened the top of the tank, grabbed one of the bearded dragons, said "here", and thrust it onto my chest to hold as if it were a baby. I was slightly frazzled but tried to play it cool as I adjusted scaley feeling of the reptile's skin. She said, "his name is Milo." And then she just disappeared to go finish spinning on the pottery wheel without another word. I stood stupidly holding Milo for a second, not really sure what to do with him.

Eventually, I made my way over to the couch so I could write. I put Milo on the couch arm next to me. I tried to write some inner feelings or prolific thoughts. But this is all I got:

1. I like peaceful, quiet places.
2. I love Seattle.
3. Why is everyone in this pottery studio so hot?
4. Would I also become hot if I did pottery on a random Thursday afternoon?
5. This iguana (didn't know what he was at the time) is a pretty good hang. It's so peaceful and quiet.
6. Wait, I'm peaceful and quiet, am I an iguana?

Milo was insanely still, but every few minutes, he lifted his claw, slamed it down on the couch arm and bobed his head up and down. Then he seemed to get antsy and would leap off the couch, sometimes using my leg as a ladder, sometimes not, and make a run for it. I really had no idea what to do with this reptile I had been put in charge of, so I would give him a few seconds to run before scooping him up and putting him back on the couch arm. The cycle repeated every five minutes or so. I did this for about an hour while writing. By the end of it, Milo seemed like he was getting agitated, so I put him back in his tank with his companion. I think we are friends now? It's hard to tell.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/v-kK1AA6mYk?si=X9UTt69lqeI63S2J" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>