---
layout: post
title: Invasive Species Family Program
date: 2014-12-01 00:00:00 +0300
range: Winter 2014
description: NYSCI program for families
img: nysci.jpg # Add image post (optional)
tags: [Curriculum] # add tag
---
During the winter of 2014, I developed and taught a course for Elementary school children and their families at the New York Hall of Science. The course was five sessions long and featured five hands-on projects to teach children and their families about invasive species.

Each session was taught on a Saturday morning for two hours. The two hours were broken down like this:

* 15 minutes - families arrive and participating in an activity to get them introduced to the concepts for the day
* 15 minutes - presentation filled with activities and demonstrations to teach families concepts about invasive species
* 75 minutes - families build a hands-on challenge and participate in the engineering design process: build, test, redesign
* 15 minutes - families share out their projects and reflect as a group

Each lesson and accompanying hands-on project was designed to build on concepts that families had learned the previous weeks. The themes for each week were as follows:

* Week 1: Balanced Ecosystems
  * What does a balanced ecosystem look like? What different parts are included in it?
  * Design: Create a mobile of different animals and plants that you think come from the same ecosystem.
* Week 2: Survival of the fittest
  * Why are invasive species? Why makes an invasive species good at taking over an ecosystem?
  * Design: Create a machine that is able to adapt to eat all three types of food in an ecosystem.
* Week 3: Transportation in Ecosystems
  * Theme: How do invasive species get around? How do humans contribute to the spreading of invasive species?
  * Design: Create a car that can transport objects out of a sandbox without picking up sand.
* Week 4: Bioindicators
  * What are the warning signs of a changing ecosystem?
  * Design: Create a device to light an LED when your ecosystem is in trouble.
* Week 5: Modifying our Environment
  * How can humans help protect our environment and native species?
  * Design: Create a wildlife crossing so animals can cross the road without getting hit by a car.