---
layout: post
title: Spare
date: 2019-01-15 00:00:00 +0300
range: Summer 2018
description: Spare connects people in need of clothing and other essentials with people in the community who have things to spare.
img: spare.png # Add image post (optional)
tags: [Technology] # add tag
---

_During this homelessness crisis, we believe every gesture of human kindness makes a difference. A jacket not only brings comfort physically but also, it can build a tiny connection that turns a stranger into a friend._

### About Spare

Spare connects people in need of clothing and other essentials with people in the community who have things to spare. It is like a one-on-one Goodwill. The main objective is to foster interactions between the housed and unhoused. We are hoping the donation can be a mechanism for building these connections throughout our community.

[Check out Spare](https://www.whatcanyouspare.org/){:target="\_blank" .button}

### How it works

There are two main pages, a donation page and a request page. If you want to donate, the donation page houses each request that comes in, and you can fulfill a specific request from there. If you’d like to request an item, the request page has categories you can fill out a short form to request. Once there is a match both the requester and donator will receive an email and text on when to pick-up/drop-off the item at the designated donation facility. These locations are well known established donation facilities, already in use for general donations.

Spare is an open-source project created by a small group of volunteers with [Hack for LA](http://www.hackforla.org/){:target="\_blank"}. I contributed to the team as a software engineer specializing in React.